# The Digitalization of Patient Medical Records

## Breaking It Down

    As innovation and advancements arise in every sector, the medical sector isn’t left behind. Electronic health records (EHRs) have come a long way in the past years and the COVID-19 pandemic was a catalyst in countries’ effort in digitalizing their systems. As defined by ISO/DTR 20514, electronic medical records are a ”repository of information regarding the health of a subject of care in computer-processed form that is able to be stored and transmitted securely, and is accessible by multiple authorized users.” [1] 

    However, Electronic Health Records (EHRs) and Electronic Medical Records (EMRs) are terms that have been used interchangeably, thus the main difference isn’t taken into consideration. During a patient’s visit, a chart is created to document their symptoms, vitals, any results for tests conducted, and any medical history relevant. Any medication prescribed is also included in the patient’s chart and it stays within the organization. A digital version of this chart is an Electronic Health Record and it’s stored on the medical institution’s computer system. [2]

    Electronic Health Records include all the above and more. It is a digital record of a patient’s medical journey is the way I like to put it. It includes the patient’s chart for every visit, along side past medical history, any allergies, all lab data conducted, imaging reports, and more. While this digital record is used by an institution’s computer system, it is stored in a system that can be shared and accessed with all medical providers, ones that are part of the patient’s care. Therefore, any hospital, clinic, medical office, etc can access a patient’s medical information as the patent visits them. [2]

## COVID’s Impact on EHRs
Countries all around the world were faced with challenges when the pandemic hit, some were prepared, and some weren’t. How and why that was the case comes down to many different reasons, but one thing that changed is their computer systems. United States’ California hospitals are one example of this need for change. 
With such a large number of people being affected causing hospitals to keep track of who’s coming in and out and if they are COVID cases or not, and a lot more. California hospitals had daily and weekly reports that needed to be sent out and their system, while digital wasn’t developed enough to maintain various data elements. They were mainly used for billing and patient care, thus not providing high quality data to be reported. For example, “a high-quality real-time data source should – under this definition – be able to produce a count of COVID-19-positive patients in a given hospital unit that agrees with the count obtained by asking the staff and clinicians directly caring for the patients in that unit.” [3] Unfortunately, that wasn’t the case for many medical institutions around the world. 
Having an efficient computer system is vital as the data would aid in the nation’s pandemic response and crisis planning. It needed to happen at a fast speed and be of high quality and having an HER system would’ve been able to withstand the demand for information and data.


